---
layout: post
title: "Fathers"
description: "A West Wing discussion"
category: thoughts
tags: [life]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

I watched an episode of the West Wing tonight, and one last night. Both
left me more depressed and sober than when I started them. They're two
episodes in the middle of season three, dealing with President Bartlett,
and what it means to be and have fathers. The entire show is more or
less a long essay on human relations, but these two episodes struck
home. They remind me of my two favourite episodes - the one in the first
season where Toby arranges a funeral for a Vietnam veteran, and one
later on where CJ Craig goes and visits her father with Alzhiemers. 

In these recent episodes I've been watching, it turns out the Jed
Bartlett has major issues with his father never liking him for being
smarter than him. He lives his life constantly hoping for the next
opportunity to prove himself - straight A's, good college, LSE, the
Nobel prize, President, etc. His father used to beat him, and now he
cannot sleep.

I cannot sleep tonight. This is largely because I've a project to work
on that I've been putting off all day (and longer than that, too.) I
started that WW episode in the hope of changing the status quo -
something I've never learned how to do in 20 years of education. In
high school, I would stare at a blank page for hours, waiting for words.
I never learned what words really went on in the parent-teacher
meetings, but they must have covered a wide ground. I was still offered
a small scholarship to my prep school, I believe; I was graded on more
or less my own terms in some cases; and I was never kicked out. Once, my
mother threatened to send my to military school if my behavior (I never
did figure out what she meant by that, exactly, but that's another
story) didn't change. I later learned my father didn't know of this
plan, and would have opposed it. That he didn't have knowledge or memory
of my mother's bluffs, and more, that he wasn't part of the daily
parenting role my mother took on herself in my late teens says a lot
about our relationship then. He was a nebulous feature, for me. 

After the divorce, my father metaphorically and literallly changed tack 
and became a sailor. He moved to the sea, where he worked odd jobs on
several yachts as a captain. I spent a month with him on his 53
ft. yacht Cha Cha, in Antigua, in the autumn of 2009. When I first
arrived, I found to my great embarassment that he had become a nudist. I
think this was one of the first major signs of change.

When I talk to him now, he is a man of paradoxes. He believes that the
world will end tomorrow - the date changes every month or so as he needs
to recalibrate his star calendars (always after the fact, of course -
after he wakes up and finds himself still here.) He's always been prone
to this - he fell prey to the 1994 theories, and then Y2K. He still
lives off the flour he stored up then, along with oysters from the bay.
Enough to make himself gain weight, although that may be due to constant
research tracking the footprints of God across the sky. For my own part,
I do not understand in the least. It takes 30 minutes to ask a question
more than two weeks in advance, partially because he's lonely and loves
to talk, and partially because he can no longer process hypotheticals,
in an almost Piraha-like primitivism. The paradox I mentioned is that it
took the end of the world for him to truly enjoy the moment. He loves
his bread, and sunshine, and small things - where all should be grey
before the coming of Christ. It doesn't make much sense to me.

I, like him, have something of the sea in me. I have not sailed much,
and when I have, it was mediocre or horrible for the most part. I've had
some good days. I've read of thousands more, and the poetry of the sea
calls to me even as I know I will get sea sick (in some respects, I 
already am.) And I, like him, do not understand finances. Oh, I can
balance a checkbook, manage international bank accounts in three
countries, save and spend enough to buy what I need and travel where I
want. But I don't understand the larger things - like student debt,
which I have in such abundance I fear that I will never actually be free
of it, or, for that matter, able to pay it. Or the reprecussions of not
paying it back. What would that mean for me? Never going back to the
States? These are things I don't know. 


