---
layout: post
title: "Matthew 5:42"
description: "A request to all Christians in the room"
category: thoughts
tags: [religion, humanism, christianity]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

For years, I have wanted to understand what christianity really is, so
that I can more accurately see why the community I grew up in fell so
short of the ideal they professed to believe in. This morning, I
realised that I had a few deep-seated issues which needed to be
addressed before I could actually read the bible again (the most
prominent of which was a strong feeling that my mother would burst out
of the closet and start crying that I was coming back into the fold,
and I would have to then awkwardly and vehemently disabuse her of that
notion). I decided, this morning is as good as any to get over these. 

So, I started reading Matthew. Most of the book passed by with just a
very raised eyebrow, until I got to this verse, and I had an idea:

> The Book of Matthew, Chapter 5:38-42  
> 38 “You have heard that it was said, ‘Eye for eye, and tooth for tooth.’  
> 39 But I tell you, do not resist an evil person. If anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to them the other cheek also.  
> 40 And if anyone wants to sue you and take your shirt, hand over your coat as well.  
> 41 If anyone forces you to go one mile, go with them two miles.  
> <b>42 Give to the one who asks you, and do not turn away from the one who wants to borrow from you.</b>  

Needless to say, this is too good an opportunity to miss. So, I dug
up my paypal donate button from my old site. I then found out that you
need to be a registered charity to use that, and the chargebacks can be
annoying, and my 'Shave-the-whales' campaign probably isn't a worthy
cause. 

So, my paypal name is also my email, richard dot littauer on gmail.  
Please, if you're a <i>true</i> Christian, <u>examine your heart</u>, and <b>give
generously</b>. Consider this a formal proposition to all Christians for
monetary donations.  

If you're an atheist, agnostic, or follower of Shiva, bring some beer
when you come over and we can all have a good sacrilegious laugh later. 
