---
layout: post
title: "The Finding"
description: ""
category: A jaunt with mate
tags: [journal]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

I woke, attended classes. When they were finished, and I had finished
messing around with my own code during them, I enjoyed the sunshine.
Bringing my slackline back with me from home, I set it up, and for
twenty-odd minutes in the afternoon sun I walked next to the building
where my colleagues and professors studied. The line hung black like a
long snake I caught another afternoon, years ago.

A final class; and then home. I watched a movie, ate dinner, did some
work. As the sun set, I realised how much I depended on my sunset
cigarette. Now I had no reason to stand on my balcony. So I went out,
visited a friend, and finished my final work for the day. Coming back, I
hear music from the empty lot behind my house, in the industrial
abandon where I once hopped around a fence and saw artwork, trees, and
what looked like a commune. No one was there. 

_"Ah! You're Brazilian. Have you ever drunk maté? I love that stuff, but
I don't have a gourd."
"I have one. I bring them with me to give, because there is always
someone who wants some."
"No shit"_

Tonight, I knew there would be people there; Bonobo was drifting through
a football field of air to prove that. I filled my maté gourd, and
headed out beneath the last blueing of the sky.

There were lights on in the abandoned garages, but I couldn't tell if
anyone was there, or if, perhaps, this was a residence and I had not
noted. I peered through a fence, and finally, wandered around and past
it. I sip cautiously, and return. WHEEEEET - a sharp whistle. My keys
rattle as a back off, hoping it's not for a dog.

Twenty metres away, I turn. There's a man there, staring at me. I slowly
walk towards him; and his hand extends. I shake it. 

He was an Italian, Guilliame. The other, in the large shed, filled to
the brim with a spotlight, was Leonard (I think.) They're making the
stage for a burlesque show, for players from Paris. 

_"So what are you doing in life?"
"Well, a masters."
"In what?"
"Computational linguistics...But I'm only here another month, and then
I'm off to Malta."
"Malta?"
"Yes. I've bought a boat, and that's what I'm doing in life."
"How long is it?"
"25 feet. Sorry, och metres."
"What about chicks?"
"There's room enough for one."

"Where is Kentuky, again?"_

I help them saw some boards. I think to myself, _my years in the stage
taught me when to exit. 

"I'm off. When are you here?"
"For the next few weeks. Come on th 13th. You can be our guest."_

My hands smelling of sawdust, my lips wet from a shared joint, my maté
empty. I'll try and follow the music from now on. 
