---
layout: post
title: "A bit of slack..."
description: "Internal monoloneliness"
category: thoughts
tags: [thoughts, friendship, poetry]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

I've been incredibly homesick the past few days. I think that is a
legitimate use of the word 'homesick', although I don't refer back to a
single place, least of all to Connecticut, where I grew up and lived for
some 14 years, nor to Edinburgh, which was my base of sorts for five
years during my undergraduate, and lastly not to Saarbrücken, where I
currently am, anyway. No, I've been homesick in another way - the
topography of my mind doesn't match the longitude and latitude of the
physical world. Home is where my friends, beauty, and adventure
collide. 

> Back within the valley.
> Down from the divide.
> No more flaming clouds about,
> O! the soft hillside.
> And the starry night,
> And my cottage light.
>
> Wallace Stevens

My homesickness manifests itself in several ways. For one, I have an
inability to focus on anything. I've never been good at focusing in the
first place, but when I'm low, it's much worse. If I am focusing, it's
on a friend, or a lock of hair, or a journey, or a tumblr. The cycle
continues. I even had a party last night which should have broken the
monotony. Alas, it didn't.

At 5:00pm today I realised I wasn't going to get better, so I watched
Game of Thrones while eating dinner, and headed out with my new
slackline from REI to the river. It's 120 feet - I managed to build a
slackline that was around 70 or 80 feet, and walked around half of it. I
put it at 5 feet off of the ground, so it was a bit high up, but it
still had a bit too much slack in it. Not really a problem, just makes
it harder to focus in the middle, when you're dropping down another four
feet. Some German kids tried it out, and a man helped me tighten it and
let out a great laugh when I fell with my legs on either side. 

But then I am back to the computer. I've been trying to get a Github to
work, checking out and updating social networks (I actually updated my
Tumblr, for once), and that sort of thing. Mostly, though, I've been
contemplating this mental map I have. The porch in Portland is tied in
with the beach at Truro, the Swiss alps, the midges along the West
Highland Way, and all of these other places I've been to and savoured.
Distance doesn't hold any barrier to reminiscing. But this world is
peopled, with friends. There are around 10 of them, and I'd give a lot
to have any of them in Saarbrücken, or to be elsewhere. Since that isn't
the case, I must be content with blogging half-assedly, trying to map
out the topography of my desire, listening to the same songs on repeat,
hoping to bring into my night that little bit of wideness that comes
from good friends - that feeling that the world is gilded, that
opportunities are real, that we'll always have enough money for another
coffee, that all wrongness is fleeting, etc. 

If I had a friend here, what would I be doing different? I assume little. 
Slacklining, surfing the net. Staring at sunsets and smoking my lungs away. 
Well, I guess I'd settle for that. For now, I have to settle for work.
Let's hope this semi-rant will break the endless beat. 
