---
layout: post
title: "Easter"
description: ""
category: thoughts
tags: [religion]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

There were a remarkable number of remarkable wisdoms my mother tried to pass down to me. Some of them were actually quite sound. As yo can probably guess by my tone, some of them weren't. Christianity bundled up many of them. One of her comments regarding this has been revolving in my mind this easter. 

> How can you not be a Christian? Many intelligent men were Christian. Are you saying you are smarter than them?

In a word, yes. I think this argument is really fundamentally flawed. Men aren't merely intelligent; they are products of their time and culture. C.S. Lewis could doubtless beat me in a game of Chess, but that doesn't mean I have to be a Christian. St. Augustine could probably parse longer sentences than I could, but that doesn't mean I am foolish for thinking that the earth revolves around the sun. This example is not so foolish as it sounds - for, although we know that this is the case thanks to Galileo, we know this through scientific deduction and reasoning. It is this same process that has lead me to reject Christianity, and it has been applied more rigorously in my own time than in any time before. I am not cognitively swifter (I should say that this is debatable, as a joke), but I may be more enlightened, and by some standards, smarter.

> Yes, I really believe that the Lord rose again today.

I find it ironic that my mother would say this today, and use the argument above of smarter men against me yesterday. The mark of a Christian isn't intelligence, it is faith - the kind of faith that goes against all logic and says that a man rose from the dead, showing his divinity in doing so, and also curiously freeing all men from fear of death and hell by merely moving his blood in his veins after a three day break. Intelligence ain't got nothing to do with it. I can't help but wonder if she was merely confused on this point. I'd ask, but it was hard enough hearing a profession of willful suspension of belief (in logic) the first time today. 

