---
layout: post
title: "Things done"
description: ""
category: thoughts
tags: [journal, to dos]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

As I was cleaning up my desktop this morning, waiting for some program to install work work, I ran across a document I made a couple of days after Thanksgiving, titled `things done`. This was it:

- Updated UKLO website
- Wrote redacted about her article.
- Wrote David redacted
- Got some new albums
- i Wrote Pete about about page
- i Wrote Gergo about video icon and deployment
- Emailed David again
- Archived Currents Against Us
- Talked to Aunt Theresa, went on a walk with Uncle Tom
- Decided to make an Angular-Github-Pages repository that will run on Jekyll
- Took a long walk with Uncle Tom
- Said hi to Jordan
- Sat in a coffee house 

What a day that must have been, most notably for the two separate walks. Why am I posting this? Because this list shows a desire I have to chronicle my days, to make an account of them, to be able to check off things as I do them (even if they weren't on a checklist before). This is one of the reasons I spent around 5 hours fighting databases to try and get [Lean](http://lean.burntfen.com/app/index.html#) working yesterday, which was ultimately a failure. That is more of a to do list program - and the past few months have taught me that my best days as far as productivity goes are days I use a pen and a paper, in an old fashioned list.

How do you keep a list of what you do each day? How do you organise your tasks having been done? 