---
layout: post
title: "Books from 2014"
description: "A read list"
category: journal
tags: [journal, books]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## Books from last year

I read a lot. This year was no exception. I failed to keep a list, and I moved from New York to San Francisco in June. I'm not sure what I read in paperback before I moved, so this list isn't complete. I've also given away some books, and I don't remember some of those. 

 * **As You Were: A Punk Comix Anthology** _Surprisingly had one of my favourite strips of all time, about a man missing a Mountain Goats concert_
 * Tim Atkins - **Horace** _Really quite atrocious_
 * Robert Bringhurst - **A Story As Sharp As A Knife** _Incredible work about Haida mythtellers. I wish it was longer_
 * Bruce Chatwin - **What Am I Doing Here** _Still the best storyteller I've read_
 * Anderson Cooper - **Dispatches from the Edge** _Good_
 * Ken Follett - **The Pillars of the Earth** _Amazingly long book about building a cathedral. I wouldn't suggest reading this on your phone._
 * Allen Ginsberg - **Howl and other poems** _He wrote other poems, too!_
 * John Green - **Looking for Alaska** _Good_
 * Frank Herbert - **Dune** _Best book ever_
 * Franz Kafka - **The Metamorphosis, in the penal colony, and other stories** _A Hunger Artist was a fantastic story_
 * Jack Kerouac - **The Dharma Bums** _A must read_
 * Daniel Keyes - **Flowers for Algernon** _Made me cry_
 * Martin Luther King Jr. - **Where Do We Go From Here: Chaos or Community** _Fantastic and still very pertinent read_
 * CS Lewis - **The Great Divorce** _Worst book ever_
 * Lois Lowry - **The Giver**
 * Alice Miller - **The Drama of the Gifted Child** _No comment_
 * Yukio Mishima - **The Sound of Waves** _My favorite Japanese author. Astoundingly good_
 * John Myers Myers - **Silverlock** _Someone published this?_
 * Ryan North - **B to the F: The Novelization of the Feature Film: Ryan North reviews George Gipe's insane novelization of the major motion picture** _If you want to laugh, this was the funniest book I have ever read_
 * Sean Patrick - **Nikola Tesla** _Don't download free books from iTunes people_
 * Penny Arcade - **Epic Legends of the Magic Sword Kings** _Did not age well_
 * Gary Snyder - **Turtle Island**
 * Gary Snyder - **The Real Work** _This was incredibly, equally as good as my favourite book of his,_ The Practice of the Wilde
 * Gary Snyder - **The Back Country** _You know, I don't think I like Snyder's poetry all that much_
 * Elizabeth George Speare - **The Sign of the Beaver** _Reading young adult books in old age is amusing_
 * Neal Stephenson - **Snow Crash** _Amusing_
 * Jonathan Swift - **Gulliver's Travels** _This wasn't worth the read, but there were some fun moments_
 * David Troupes - **The Fountain**
 * David Troupes - **Parsimony**
 * Gene Wolfe - **There Are Doors** _I gave up on this book the first time I've read it; I read it twice this year. It's an incredible fantasy set in 1920s SF or so._
 * Gene Wolfe - **The Book of the New Sun (Tetrology)**
 * Gene Wolfe - **The Urth of the New Sun** _This is the addendum to the Book of the New Sun, my favorite series_
 * Gene Wolfe - **The Wizard** _I read the Wizard and the Knight at least once a year_
 * Gene Wolfe - **The Knight**
 * Gene Wolfe - **The Ziggurat**
 * Robert Zelazny - **Doorways in the Sand**
 
