---
layout: post
title: "Books I read in 2015"
description: "A reading list"
category: journal
tags: [list, books]
date: 2015-12-29-23-15
---
{% include JB/setup %}

I read a lot of this books. This year was no exception. Not including a few books which I gave away and can't remember reading, and a few books that I read on my computer (mostly code books), here is my list of books I read this year, in alphabetical order by first author. I love talking about books; if you've read any of these, [drop me a line](mailto:richard@burntfen.com) and let's chat! I've bolded the ones I found particularly good.

The most influential books I read this year were: _My Struggle_ by Karl-Ove Knausgård, and _Of Walking in Ice_ by Werner Herzog. They've redefined what I thought was possible with writing.

 - Amanda Palmer - The Art of Asking
 - Amy Tan - World on Fire
 - **Andy Weir - The Martian**
 - Bill Waterson - Calvin and Hobbes
 - Bill Waterson - Scientific Progress Goes Boink!
 - Bill Waterson - Something Under the Bed is Drooling
 - Bill Waterson - Weirdos from Another Planet
 - Bill Waterson - Yukon Ho!
 - Brandon Sanderson - Mistborn
 - Brandon Sanderson - The Hero of Ages
 - Brandon Sanderson - The Well of Ascension
 - **Brandon Sanderson - The Way of Kings**
 - **Brandon Sanderson - Words of Radiance**
 - David Deida - The Way of the Superior Man
 - **David Troupes - Parsimony**
 - **David Troupes - Renaming of the Birds**
 - **David Troupes - The Simple Men**
 - Democracy, A Very Short Introduction
 - **Donald Hall - Essays After Eighty**
 - Douglas Adams - The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy
 - Elie Wiesel - Night
 - Elizabeth Speare - The Sign of the Beaver
 - Frank Herbert - Dune Messiah
 - Gary Snyder - The Back Country
 - Gary Snyder - This Present Moment
 - **Gary Synder - Riprap & Cold Mountain Poems**
 - **Gene Wolfe - A Cabin on the Coast**
 - Gene Wolfe - The Ziggurat
 - **Haruki Murakami - What I Talk About When I Talk About Running**
 - **Hermann Hesse - Siddhartha**
 - James C. Richards - Better is Better
 - James D. Watson - Avoid Boring People
 - **Josh Waitzkin - The Art of Learning**
 - JRR Tolkien - The Book of Lost Tales 1
 - JRR Tolkien - The Book of Lost Tales 2
 - **JRR Tolkien - The Fall of Arthur**
 - JRR Tolkien - The Hobbit
 - JRR Tolkien - The Lord of the Rings
 - **Karl Ove Knausgård - My Struggle, vol. 1**
 - **Karl Ove Knausgård - My Struggle, vol. 2**
 - Karuho Shiina - Kimi no todoke
 - Ken Follett - The Pillars of the Earth
 - Kenji Yoshino - A Thousand Times More Fair
 - Leo Babauta - Zen to Done
 - Leo Tolstoy - What Men Live By
 - Mark Salzman - Iron and Silk
 - Matthew Inman - How to Tell If Your Cat Is Plotting to Kill You
 - Neil Gaimain - American Gods
 - **Neil Gaiman - The Ocean at the End of the Lane**
 - Pablo Neruda - The Sea and the Bells
 - Pablo Neruda - Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair
 - **Patrick Rothfuss - The Name of the Wind**
 - **Patrick Rothfuss - The Wise Man’s Fear**
 - Ray Bradbury - Fahrenheit 451
 - Raymond Fiest - Magician: Apprentice
 - Rebecca West - The Return of the Soldier
 - **Robert Pirsig - Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance**
 - Robin Hobb - Assassin’s Apprentice
 - Robin Hobb - Assassin’s Quest
 - Robin Hobb - Royal Assassin
 - Robin Sloan - Mr Penumbras 24 Hour Bookshop
 - Ryan North - Poor Yorick
 - Ryan North - To Be or Not To Be
 - Seth Grahame-Smith - Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter
 - Seth Grahame-Smith - Pride, Prejudice, and Zombies
 - Terry Pratchett - Making Money
 - Thomas Aquinas - On Being and Essence
 - To-ru Zekuu - Shiki Tsukai
 - **Ursula le Guin - Searoad**
 - Various - As You Were, Punx Comics
 - **Walter Isaacson - Benjamin Franklin**
 - **Werner Herzog - Of Walking in Ice**
 - WB Yeats - The Tower
 - William Carlos Williams - Selected Poems
